README.md, before:

# LucidBook Source
Go to [lucidbook.github.io](https://lucidbook.github.io/) for more information.

## Style Guide & General Guidelines
Here's a few guidelines for writing articles for this book, that should help you
format everything to be consistent.

### Titles
- Should either be in "Title Case" or "Written as a sentence?" depending on
    their usage.

### Chapter Naming
- Title in SUMMARY.md should be short and "Title Case".
- Title in filename should be "dash-case" without capitals.
- Title in the article itself can deviate from or expand on the SUMMARY.md
    title.

### External Links, References, and Attribution
- Links to external sites are in a separate section at the bottom of the
    article.
- Links to other articles in the guide or outside it are under a heading
    "Further Reading".
- Attribution is avoided, these guides are worked and improved on by everyone.
    If you feel attribution is needed, use a "References" or "Further Reading"
    section at the bottom of the article.
- Similarly, nobody owns an article.
    Anyone can submit changes to any article.
    Changes are curated but they aren't blocked based on article ownership.

Commit message:

Clarify attribution in README.md

README.md, after:

# LucidBook Source
Go to [lucidbook.github.io](https://lucidbook.github.io/) for more information.

## Style Guide & General Guidelines
Here's a few guidelines for writing articles for this book, that should help you
format everything to be consistent.

### Titles
- Should either be in "Title Case" or "Written as a sentence?" depending on
    their usage.

### Chapter Naming
- Title in SUMMARY.md should be short and "Title Case".
- Title in filename should be "dash-case" without capitals.
- Title in the article itself can deviate from or expand on the SUMMARY.md
    title.

### External Links, References, and Attribution
- Links to external sites are in a separate section at the bottom of the
    article.
- Links to other articles in the guide or outside it are under a heading
    "Further Reading".
- Articles and techniques are not attributed to individual people within the
    book.
    These guides and techniques are worked and improved on by everyone.
    If you feel attribution is needed, use a "References" or "Further Reading"
    section at the bottom of the article.
    Giving thanks to specific people for contributing or writing articles is of
    course fine, it's just important that nobody *owns* an article.
