src/the-basics/index.md, before:

# The Basics
So you're interested in lucid dreaming, great!
Welcome to the start of your journey into entirely different worlds.

This guide will explain the basics of lucid dreaming, basic terminology, and how
to get yourself started with the most basic of lucid dreaming techniques,
"reality checks".
From there it will guide you into what to try next in your lucid dreams, the
basics of dream control, and what other lucid dreaming techniques to try.
This guide is ordered in sequence of what information will be most relevant to
you at your level of understanding after reading the previous chapter, but it
can be read in any order you want.

Remember to relax and stay persistent, this might take a while.
Enjoy the ride, even if you *really* want to reach the destination!

## Wait, what is lucid dreaming?
Lucid dreaming as its very basic form is being aware that you're dreaming.
This is also called being "lucid".
If this sounds completely normal to you, you may be someone who naturally lucid
dreams.
Most people don't naturally do this however, and have to train themselves to
become lucid in dreams.
The term is also used as an umbrella term for actually making use of this
lucidity.
Being lucid gives you a lot of power over the dream world itself, you can do
anything you want in a dream.

If you've never heard of this before, this may sound like a concept completely
foreign to you, or even like pseudoscience paranormal gobbledygook.
Lucid dreaming however is widely acknowledged as a real thing, even in
psychology.
Everyone can learn to lucid dream and there's nothing paranormal about it.
While for some people it can be a jumping board into paranormal experiences,
this book will not go into that or comment on the validity of it.
If you're interested in these things that's alright, you do you, this book just
won't help you with that beyond lucid dreaming itself.

## But it's a dream, won't it all feel fake?
It's technically all imagined yes, but that doesn't mean it's not real to your
mind.
Lucid dreams can feel incredibly real, or even hyper-real as your senses in
dreams are not filtered interpretations of your real life sensory organs, but
direct feeds from the dream world.
People who wear glasses generally don't need them in dreams.

This is not to say that dreams are indistinguishable from real life, in fact
there's a lot of things that are very different.
These are just part of the experience, and allow you to change the world around
you, your own appearance, travel to different locations quickly, or do various
other interesting things you can't do in real life.
Opening a door in a dream for example might lead nowhere, or somewhere
completely unexpected.

## But I don't have any dreams
Yes you do! Everyone has dreams, the hard part is remembering them.
But you can train this!
This guide has some tips and tricks on how to improve your dream recall from
nothing, to multiple dreams per day.

## I need this **RIGHT NOW** what's the fastest way to do this?
Woah there, calm yourself down a bit.
Lucid dreaming certainly is very appealing, and a great experience, but rushing
to it won't work.
There is no fastest way or quick easy way to reach a lucid dream, it takes time
and persistence, and figuring out what works for you.
(No matter how much some supplement sellers would like to convince you otherwise)

If you're not feeling comfortable in your own body, or are suffering from
problems in your life, you may feel like you absolutely *need* to learn this.
This however will work against you.
Take a step back, figure out your life, talk to a therapist.
Escaping into a lucid dream won't solve any problems for you, no matter how much
it sounds like a panacea.

You need to approach lucid dreaming with patience.
It's likely that it's going to take some time before you get into a lucid dream
where you can actually do the things you want to do.
Enjoy the journey.
Enjoy the benefits you get from all the techniques that help you achieve lucid
dreams.
Enjoy the weird experiences you get that aren't lucid dreams but still something
different, something unique.

Take your time, enjoy the small victories and benefits, and before you know it
you're suddenly standing in your own personal world, able to do whatever you
want.

## Okay, how do I start?
Great!
Welcome to the start of your journey.
Remember that this is neither a sprint nor a marathon.
It's a gentle walk in the park, and if you push yourself to run way too fast you
might just burn yourself out.
Move on to the next chapter of the guide.

Commit message:

Add note on lucid dreaming not making you tired. (Fixes #8)

src/the-basics/index.md, after:

# The Basics
So you're interested in lucid dreaming, great!
Welcome to the start of your journey into entirely different worlds.

This guide will explain the basics of lucid dreaming, basic terminology, and how
to get yourself started with the most basic of lucid dreaming techniques,
"reality checks".
From there it will guide you into what to try next in your lucid dreams, the
basics of dream control, and what other lucid dreaming techniques to try.
This guide is ordered in sequence of what information will be most relevant to
you at your level of understanding after reading the previous chapter, but it
can be read in any order you want.

Remember to relax and stay persistent, this might take a while.
Enjoy the ride, even if you *really* want to reach the destination!

## Wait, what is lucid dreaming?
Lucid dreaming as its very basic form is being aware that you're dreaming.
This is also called being "lucid".
If this sounds completely normal to you, you may be someone who naturally lucid
dreams.
Most people don't naturally do this however, and have to train themselves to
become lucid in dreams.
The term is also used as an umbrella term for actually making use of this
lucidity.
Being lucid gives you a lot of power over the dream world itself, you can do
anything you want in a dream.

If you've never heard of this before, this may sound like a concept completely
foreign to you, or even like pseudoscience paranormal gobbledygook.
Lucid dreaming however is widely acknowledged as a real thing, even in
psychology.
Everyone can learn to lucid dream and there's nothing paranormal about it.
While for some people it can be a jumping board into paranormal experiences,
this book will not go into that or comment on the validity of it.
If you're interested in these things that's alright, you do you, this book just
won't help you with that beyond lucid dreaming itself.

## But it's a dream, won't it all feel fake?
It's technically all imagined yes, but that doesn't mean it's not real to your
mind.
Lucid dreams can feel incredibly real, or even hyper-real as your senses in
dreams are not filtered interpretations of your real life sensory organs, but
direct feeds from the dream world.
People who wear glasses generally don't need them in dreams.

This is not to say that dreams are indistinguishable from real life, in fact
there's a lot of things that are very different.
These are just part of the experience, and allow you to change the world around
you, your own appearance, travel to different locations quickly, or do various
other interesting things you can't do in real life.
Opening a door in a dream for example might lead nowhere, or somewhere
completely unexpected.

## But I don't have any dreams
Yes you do! Everyone has dreams, the hard part is remembering them.
But you can train this!
This guide has some tips and tricks on how to improve your dream recall from
nothing, to multiple dreams per day.

## But won't this make me really tired?
Nope!
Dreaming happens during REM sleep, which isn't meant to give you rest.
You can spend every single dream completely lucid and not miss out on any rest
at all.
As well while lucid dreaming you may become more aware of how sleep works and
how to better plan in your sleep to be more rested overall.

## I need this **RIGHT NOW** what's the fastest way to do this?
Woah there, calm yourself down a bit.
Lucid dreaming certainly is very appealing, and a great experience, but rushing
to it won't work.
There is no fastest way or quick easy way to reach a lucid dream, it takes time
and persistence, and figuring out what works for you.
(No matter how much some supplement sellers would like to convince you otherwise)

If you're not feeling comfortable in your own body, or are suffering from
problems in your life, you may feel like you absolutely *need* to learn this.
This however will work against you.
Take a step back, figure out your life, talk to a therapist.
Escaping into a lucid dream won't solve any problems for you, no matter how much
it sounds like a panacea.

You need to approach lucid dreaming with patience.
It's likely that it's going to take some time before you get into a lucid dream
where you can actually do the things you want to do.
Enjoy the journey.
Enjoy the benefits you get from all the techniques that help you achieve lucid
dreams.
Enjoy the weird experiences you get that aren't lucid dreams but still something
different, something unique.

Take your time, enjoy the small victories and benefits, and before you know it
you're suddenly standing in your own personal world, able to do whatever you
want.

## Okay, how do I start?
Great!
Welcome to the start of your journey.
Remember that this is neither a sprint nor a marathon.
It's a gentle walk in the park, and if you push yourself to run way too fast you
might just burn yourself out.
Move on to the next chapter of the guide.
