src/the-basics/reality-checks.md, before:

# Reality Checks
So you've decided to learn lucid dreaming, where do you start?
You want to be able to know when you're dreaming.
So, how do you know you're in a dream?
Easy, you check if you are!

Reality checks are the bread and butter of lucid dreaming.
They're the foundation most other techniques are based on.
The concept is simple, when you're not sure if you're dreaming or not, you
check!
You might have however seen a problem with this, you don't just naturally tend
to ask yourself if you're dreaming while in a dream.
We'll get back to this in a bit but first...

## So how exactly do I do a reality check?
A reality check is really simple.
It's just a few steps.

- Ask yourself "Am I dreaming?".
    Don't ask it for the sake of it.
    You should **really** be doubting your reality.
    Even if you did a check just before, you always might be in a dream.
- Look around you, does anything look weird. If so, inspect it.
- Ask yourself "How did I get here", what did you do 5 minutes ago, how did you
    get to the location you currently are?
    Time often works differently in dreams, see if you can recognize a time
    skip, or if you can't remember how you got there.
- Perform the reality check itself, here you perform an action that should tell
    you for sure that you're dreaming.
    In this example we're using the classic "Look at your hands" check.
    - Look at your palms
    - Check if they look as they normally do, how many fingers do you have,
        don't yet assume what the correct amount should be.
- Say to yourself "Next time I am dreaming, I will reality check and realize
    I'm dreaming.".
    This will incubate the idea of doing reality checks in your mind and help
    bring that into your dreams.
- Re-try your reality check a few times and keep saying that to yourself every
    time.

When you go to sleep, you should also repeat "Next time I am dreaming, I will
reality check and realize I'm dreaming." to yourself as you're falling asleep.
The reality check example given is a classic and simple one, but there's various
others you can do.

- Keeping your nose plugged/blocked and trying to breathe.
- Trying to push your thumb through your palm.
- Paying attention to gravity, see if it's harder or easier to walk than it
    should be.
- Try to change something in your potential dream.
- Try light switches, they don't always work right in dreams.
- Read some text, see if it's hard to read or doesn't make any sense.
    Look away and back and again and see if it changed.

In total doing a check shouldn't take you too long and it won't be interrupting
to your overall day.
You can do as many checks as you want and combine different ones, be creative!

## Okay, but how do I remember to do this in dreams?
Well, one thing that will help is the mantra above, repeating to yourself that
you will be doing a check.
But there's one important key thing to keep in mind when you start lucid
dreaming.

**You should never be sure you're not dreaming, always assume you might be no
matter what.
A reality check can't prove that you are in reality, it can only prove that
you're not.
You should be living this, this should be on your mind all the time, that the
world you're in might not be real.**

This is so incredibly key I can't make it bold enough text.
You should **always** assume you might be dreaming, it is **always** a
possibility.
Living with this doubt may sound scary, but it isn't!
Doubting your surroundings at all times makes you more aware of what's happening
around you, and doesn't take away from the experiences you have while awake.
Having this constant doubt about being awake is the first step to realizing that
you're dreaming in a dream, but again we'll get back to that in a bit.

Before we move on I should make a quick mention, if you doubting your reality
starts impacting your life in serious negative ways, you need to take a step
back and re-evaluate if this is the right path for you.
Some people suffer from mental disorders that make distinguishing between
reality and non-reality (hallucinations, dreams, etc.) extremely hard and if you
feel like you are experiencing that you should stop right then and contact a
therapist.
Prioritize your mental wellbeing over lucid dreaming.

## Right, anything else I can do to remember this?
Sure!
A few more detailed tricks will be mentioned later in this guide but here's a
few simple tricks you can make use of.

- Read back your dream journal (we'll get to what that is later), and see if you
    have any recurring dream signs that should help you recognize it's a dream.
- Perform a reality check whenever something common occurs that also happens in
    your dreams.
- Perform a reality check whenever you go through a door.

Basically, the trick here is to create triggers that will cause you to reality
check.
You can also meditate to incubate these triggers into your dreams. (More on
meditation and incubation later in this guide)

## If I do all of this, will I get a lucid dream?
Yes! Eventually.
It's going to take time, takes a different amount for everyone.
Some take a few days, others a few months.
The key is persistence and staying positive.
Say to yourself every night before sleeping that you **will** have a lucid
dream.
Really believe it, even if you've been going for weeks without success.

Eventually, you'll get the small successes.
You'll start being more aware in dreams, thinking more critically.
You start noticing things are weird, but perhaps not quite realizing yet.
And one day, you'll suddenly be standing there, looking at your hands having 6
fingers.

## HOLY CRAP MY HANDS HAVE 6 FINGERS
So you've suddenly realized you're in a lucid dream, what next?
You'll likely be very excited, the world around you may suddenly become a lot
more vivid.
Some however, then might wake up.

A common theory is that the excitement is what wakes you up, but this doesn't
seem to line up with the experiences of regular lucid dreamers.
Rather, it seems that this theory has come from that beginner lucid dreamers
are all the more excited when they get their first lucid dream.
Rather, it's just more likely to become lucid at the end of the dream, while
you're already about to wake up.
As a result when you're starting it's likely that this is where you realize it's
a dream.

If this happens to you (it may not), don't worry about it!
You just managed to get another step closer to your goals and whatever you're
doing is working!
Just keep going, eventually you'll get longer lucid dreams!

What also may happen is that you don't remember all (or any of) the things you
wanted to do when lucid dreaming.
This is normal as well, and it can really suck, but once again remember that
this is still a success!
You've managed to stick in the dream, that's great!
Eventually you'll get more aware of what you're doing.
What also will help is using incubation to set a goal of what you'll be doing in
the lucid dream.
More on that later in this guide.

Regardless of what happened, if you made it to this step you've done great!
You've set the first steps into your lucid dreaming adventure.
If you haven't yet, that's alright.
Just keep trying, and keep reading!
The rest of this guide will have a common lucid dreaming method that's really
easy to make use of and very effective, some more tips to make it easier to
lucid dream, and tips to help you in the dreams when you become lucid.

# Further Reading
An extra technique you could make use of to remember your reality checks is
called "Prospective Memory", there's no guide on this currently in this book.
Instead you could read [this one](http://www.world-of-lucid-dreaming.com/how-to-have-more-lucid-dreams-with-prospective-memory.html).

_This guide is still being written, the next chapter isn't finished yet, instead
go to the [Lucid Dreaming Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/LucidDreaming/)_

Commit message:

Extend dream journaling article into a full dream recall article and add it to SUMMARY

src/the-basics/reality-checks.md, after:

# Reality Checks
So you want to lucid dream, and now you know how to actually remember your
dreams, so what's next?
You want to be able to know when you're dreaming.
So, how do you know you're in a dream?
Easy, you check if you are!

Reality checks are the bread and butter of lucid dreaming.
They're the foundation most other techniques are based on.
The concept is simple, when you're not sure if you're dreaming or not, you
check!
You might have however seen a problem with this, you don't just naturally tend
to ask yourself if you're dreaming while in a dream.
We'll get back to this in a bit but first...

## So how exactly do I do a reality check?
A reality check is really simple.
It's just a few steps.

- Ask yourself "Am I dreaming?".
    Don't ask it for the sake of it.
    You should **really** be doubting your reality.
    Even if you did a check just before, you always might be in a dream.
- Look around you, does anything look weird. If so, inspect it.
- Ask yourself "How did I get here", what did you do 5 minutes ago, how did you
    get to the location you currently are?
    Time often works differently in dreams, see if you can recognize a time
    skip, or if you can't remember how you got there.
- Perform the reality check itself, here you perform an action that should tell
    you for sure that you're dreaming.
    In this example we're using the classic "Look at your hands" check.
    - Look at your palms
    - Check if they look as they normally do, how many fingers do you have,
        don't yet assume what the correct amount should be.
- Say to yourself "Next time I am dreaming, I will reality check and realize
    I'm dreaming.".
    This will incubate the idea of doing reality checks in your mind and help
    bring that into your dreams.
- Re-try your reality check a few times and keep saying that to yourself every
    time.

When you go to sleep, you should also repeat "Next time I am dreaming, I will
reality check and realize I'm dreaming." to yourself as you're falling asleep.
The reality check example given is a classic and simple one, but there's various
others you can do.

- Keeping your nose plugged/blocked and trying to breathe.
- Trying to push your thumb through your palm.
- Paying attention to gravity, see if it's harder or easier to walk than it
    should be.
- Try to change something in your potential dream.
- Try light switches, they don't always work right in dreams.
- Read some text, see if it's hard to read or doesn't make any sense.
    Look away and back and again and see if it changed.

In total doing a check shouldn't take you too long and it won't be interrupting
to your overall day.
You can do as many checks as you want and combine different ones, be creative!

## Okay, but how do I remember to do this in dreams?
Well, one thing that will help is the mantra above, repeating to yourself that
you will be doing a check.
But there's one important key thing to keep in mind when you start lucid
dreaming.

**You should never be sure you're not dreaming, always assume you might be no
matter what.
A reality check can't prove that you are in reality, it can only prove that
you're not.
You should be living this, this should be on your mind all the time, that the
world you're in might not be real.**

This is so incredibly key I can't make it bold enough text.
You should **always** assume you might be dreaming, it is **always** a
possibility.
Living with this doubt may sound scary, but it isn't!
Doubting your surroundings at all times makes you more aware of what's happening
around you, and doesn't take away from the experiences you have while awake.
Having this constant doubt about being awake is the first step to realizing that
you're dreaming in a dream, but again we'll get back to that in a bit.

Before we move on I should make a quick mention, if you doubting your reality
starts impacting your life in serious negative ways, you need to take a step
back and re-evaluate if this is the right path for you.
Some people suffer from mental disorders that make distinguishing between
reality and non-reality (hallucinations, dreams, etc.) extremely hard and if you
feel like you are experiencing that you should stop right then and contact a
therapist.
Prioritize your mental wellbeing over lucid dreaming.

## Right, anything else I can do to remember this?
Sure!
A few more detailed tricks will be mentioned later in this guide but here's a
few simple tricks you can make use of.

- Read back your dream journal (we'll get to what that is later), and see if you
    have any recurring dream signs that should help you recognize it's a dream.
- Perform a reality check whenever something common occurs that also happens in
    your dreams.
- Perform a reality check whenever you go through a door.

Basically, the trick here is to create triggers that will cause you to reality
check.
You can also meditate to incubate these triggers into your dreams. (More on
meditation and incubation later in this guide)

## If I do all of this, will I get a lucid dream?
Yes! Eventually.
It's going to take time, takes a different amount for everyone.
Some take a few days, others a few months.
The key is persistence and staying positive.
Say to yourself every night before sleeping that you **will** have a lucid
dream.
Really believe it, even if you've been going for weeks without success.

Eventually, you'll get the small successes.
You'll start being more aware in dreams, thinking more critically.
You start noticing things are weird, but perhaps not quite realizing yet.
And one day, you'll suddenly be standing there, looking at your hands having 6
fingers.

## HOLY CRAP MY HANDS HAVE 6 FINGERS
So you've suddenly realized you're in a lucid dream, what next?
You'll likely be very excited, the world around you may suddenly become a lot
more vivid.
Some however, then might wake up.

A common theory is that the excitement is what wakes you up, but this doesn't
seem to line up with the experiences of regular lucid dreamers.
Rather, it seems that this theory has come from that beginner lucid dreamers
are all the more excited when they get their first lucid dream.
Rather, it's just more likely to become lucid at the end of the dream, while
you're already about to wake up.
As a result when you're starting it's likely that this is where you realize it's
a dream.

If this happens to you (it may not), don't worry about it!
You just managed to get another step closer to your goals and whatever you're
doing is working!
Just keep going, eventually you'll get longer lucid dreams!

What also may happen is that you don't remember all (or any of) the things you
wanted to do when lucid dreaming.
This is normal as well, and it can really suck, but once again remember that
this is still a success!
You've managed to stick in the dream, that's great!
Eventually you'll get more aware of what you're doing.
What also will help is using incubation to set a goal of what you'll be doing in
the lucid dream.
More on that later in this guide.

Regardless of what happened, if you made it to this step you've done great!
You've set the first steps into your lucid dreaming adventure.
If you haven't yet, that's alright.
Just keep trying, and keep reading!
The rest of this guide will have a common lucid dreaming method that's really
easy to make use of and very effective, some more tips to make it easier to
lucid dream, and tips to help you in the dreams when you become lucid.

# Further Reading
An extra technique you could make use of to remember your reality checks is
called "Prospective Memory", there's no guide on this currently in this book.
Instead you could read [this one](http://www.world-of-lucid-dreaming.com/how-to-have-more-lucid-dreams-with-prospective-memory.html).

_This guide is still being written, the next chapter isn't finished yet, instead
go to the [Lucid Dreaming Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/LucidDreaming/)_
