src/introduction.md, before:

# Introduction
Welcome (potential) lucid dreamer!
- If you're new to lucid dreaming or don't know what it is, start with the chapter "The Basics".
- If you want to contribute to this book, see the "Contributing" section below
    on how to do that.

_This book is a heavy work in progress. Feel free to add new guides haphazardly
if you feel the book needs the subject and doesn't have it yet, other
contributors will clean them up and organize them._

## What you will find in this book
- How to lucid dream and how to do various things while lucid dreaming.
- Structured guides on various lucid dreaming techniques.

## What you will _not_ find in this book
- Paranormal guides or articles.
- Devices, supplements or other paid books.

## Useful Links
- [Lucid Dreaming Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/LucidDreaming/)
- [Lucid Dream Hub](http://ldhub.boards.net/)
- [DreamViews Forum & Guides](http://www.dreamviews.com/)

## Contributing
You can submit contributions to this book at the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/lucidbook/book) for it.
There's various ways you can contribute new chapters.

This book is created using [mdBook](https://github.com/azerupi/mdBook), and is
written in the "Markdown" format.
If you're familiar with Reddit's comment and post formatting you'll feel right
at home.

Don't forget to read the style guide in the repository's README.md before
writing.

### Submit an Issue
Just create an issue with the title "New Chapter: [Title]", starting with the
chapter you want it to be added to, followed by the text you want in it. A
contributor will add it for you. This is the easiest but least flexible way to
contribute.

The Markdown syntax used on GitHub mostly matches the syntax used by mdBook.

### Create a Pull Request
Contributions can be done using "Pull Requests", see the [GitHub documentation on pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/)
on how to contribute.

You can use the GitHub site for adding and editing files, it has a pretty good
markdown preview. You can also use your own Git client to download the files and
edit them on your own computer. (For example, GitKraken, SourceTree, or GitHub
for Windows)

## License
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

Commit message:

Restructure files into grouped folders, split up "The Basics" so all techniques are in the techniques chapter now

src/introduction.md, after:

# Introduction
Welcome (potential) lucid dreamer, meditator, or otherwise!
- If you're interested in lucid dreaming, but don't know what it is or how to do
    it, look at the practice guides chapters. "Lucid Dreaming Basics" is a good
    place to start.
- If you want to contribute to this book, see the "Contributing" section below
    on how to do that.

_This book is a heavy work in progress. Feel free to add new guides haphazardly
if you feel the book needs the subject and doesn't have it yet, other
contributors will clean them up and organize them._

## What you will find in this book
- Guides on lucid dreaming and related topics.
- Structured guides on various lucid dreaming techniques.

## What you will _not_ find in this book
- A metaphysical focus. Metaphysical articles and guides are allowed but should
    be kept separated from the other articles. Different people have different
    believes, and this book should be open to all believes.
- Devices, supplements or other paid books. No advertising.

## Useful Links
- [Lucid Dreaming Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/LucidDreaming/)
- [Lucid Dream Hub](http://ldhub.boards.net/)
- [DreamViews Forum & Guides](http://www.dreamviews.com/)

## Contributing
You can submit contributions to this book at the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/lucidbook/book) for it.
There's various ways you can contribute new chapters.

This book is created using [mdBook](https://github.com/azerupi/mdBook), and is
written in the "Markdown" format.
If you're familiar with Reddit's comment and post formatting you'll feel right
at home.

Don't forget to read the style guide in the repository's README.md before
writing.

### Submit an Issue
Just create an issue with the title "New Chapter: [Title]", starting with the
chapter you want it to be added to, followed by the text you want in it. A
contributor will add it for you. This is the easiest but least flexible way to
contribute.

The Markdown syntax used on GitHub mostly matches the syntax used by mdBook.

### Create a Pull Request
Contributions can be done using "Pull Requests", see the [GitHub documentation on pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/)
on how to contribute.

You can use the GitHub site for adding and editing files, it has a pretty good
markdown preview. You can also use your own Git client to download the files and
edit them on your own computer. (For example, GitKraken, SourceTree, or GitHub
for Windows)

## License
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.
